Page 3: that the washings require the crude product to be suspended in the washing solvent and stirred for 5−10 min, rather than simply pouring the washing solvent over the crude product during vacuum filtration; this is one of the reasons that students are, as previously mentioned, encouraged to discuss their project plans with the supervising academic, although intervention can also be made during discussion of a groups’ prepared risk assessment before they begin synthesis. Product identity is confirmed by 
Page 4: g g form the gel in each solvent. Students can use any or all of the suggested solvents as well as mixtures if they can provide a literature-supported reason for such a choice. Gelation in thesei 63 
Page 4: gg literature-supported reason for such a choice. Gelation in these solvents is confirmed by tabletop rheology;63 students are 
Page 4: g research: briefly, that nonpolar solvents lead to DBS gels where hydrogen bonding interactions are the main driving force for self-assembly, while polar solvents lead to π−π stacking interactions predominating.60 They have access to three 
Page 4: (UV−vis), and fluorescence. The IR spectroscopy method requires the gels to be dried to produce xerogels; this can be achieved in a vacuum desiccator provided that a relatively volatile solvent is used and sufficient drying time (>1 week) is allowed. From this xerogel, a KBr disc can be prepared, allowing 
Page 4: g p p gels of the LMWGs in each solvent; the exact method is left to each group to determine, though we have observed more success when students use the solutions of gels made below the MGC, and this allows samples to be prepared in advance. These 
Page 4: p g g in polar solvents, the spectrum of a solution is expected to show a well-resolved absorption band at ca. 270−290 nm, while by comparison the spectrum of a gel is expected to show increased peak intensity, loss of fine structure, and a broader absorption toward the longer wavelength region (see Figure 4 for an 
Page 4: g stacking aromatic groups. For DBS LMWGs in nonpolar solvents, the spectrum of a solution is expected to show two peaks, one at ca. 230−250 nm and the other at ca. 270−290 nm, with the spectrum of the gel again showing increased peak intensity, loss of fine structure, and a broader absorption toward the longer wavelength region.55,58,60l 
Page 4: g p excitation wavelength. Fluorescence spectroscopy is expected to show a red shift when increasing concentrations of a DBS LMWG lead to increased formation of ground-state dimers between benzylidene groups, i.e., evidence of π−π stacking (see 58 
